Now that we have a better idea on how UTM tags provide campaign data
to Google Analytics and the cases where we don't need UTM tags,
let's talk about some considerations for your campaign traffic that does need UTM tags.
So in order to get the most out of your tagging,
you really want to strive towards consistency.
Consistency within particular channels and consistency across your channels.
It is really important and it helps to improve how you
can bucket your traffic into your appropriate marketing channels.
It helps ensure that you have clean data that is usable in your reporting,
and it's going to make your life a whole lot easier down the road.
So I've just created a little chart here that we can take a look at,
and it takes us down the hierarchy starting with campaign,
and then medium, and then source.
This chart gives you a visualization of an example where you have a unified campaign,
then why not use a consistent UTM campaign value across that campaign.
So in this case, your holiday free shipping promotion.
Why not in any case where you're promoting that campaign use
holiday-fs-2018, separated by dashes.
Then going down the chain,
we have in this case a medium of email,
and a medium of display-rt, paid social media.
So in each of these cases again,
we want to have a different medium to reflect what
each of those different marketing programs is.
Keep in mind, once you've decided that UTM medium equals email is going to be for email,
then you should use that for all of your email marketing efforts.
Similar with if you are going to use display-rt anytime you have displayed retargeting,
then use the same UTM medium value and so forth.
One exception for retargeting is your remarketing campaigns in Google Ads,
which are going to automatically come in as Google CPC.
Then for source.
So in the case of email here,
the source of this particular email traffic is your house-file-all-subscribers.
So you want to identify that source clearly.
Many email platforms provide an option for
automatic UTM tagging for any links contained in the email.
You can take advantage of this option for consistency.
Your displayed retargeting is run through a vendor criteo.
So you might just simplify that with criteo.
Another thing you could do is break that down to
the individual publisher level line items if you had that data available.
To recap briefly, for source,
you should consistently reflect where particular campaign traffic is coming from;
Google, Yahoo, Facebook, etc.
Medium should also be consistent,
but here you are striving for consistent tagging
relative to particular formats of advertising;
CPC, CPM, Email, Social, etc.
For campaign, you want to use user-friendly naming conventions
that are fairly intuitive for somebody seeing that data for the first time.
You want them to be consistent and to be descriptive in
an abbreviated format that's easy to digest.